# Keystone XL--Idiosyncratic Episodes

## Nebraska law episodes

When the debate on KXL first came up, Nebraska--unlike Montana and South Dakota--[[did not have in place a formal process for deciding on pipeline routes|https://www.ogj.com/general-interest/government/article/17265215/state-department-delays-keystone-xl-decision-until-2013]]. Under state regulations, KXL did not originally required an environmental impact statement. Assessment of impacts in Nebraska were hence carried out by the State Department. Pipeline operators could build, and--as far as I understand--use eminent domain to acquire right-of-way as they like in Nebraska, since pipelines are considered public infrastructure. For the use of eminent domain, a certain threshold in percent of the total route has to have been acuiqed--as far as I understand. The State Department was involved because KXL crosses the Canada-US border. 

The absense of regulation was a problem for Nebraska, since unlike its "older brother" Keystone, it would run through the [[Sandhills]]. Nebraska would have no say in the approval process for the pipeline through this sensitive region. [[The State Department eventually decided in November 2011 to delay the decision on the pipeline until 2013 in order to carry out a study on alternative routes.|ttps://www.ogj.com/general-interest/government/article/17265215/state-department-delays-keystone-xl-decision-until-2013]] In response, the legislature of Nebraska called a special session to decide on an alternative route for KXL. TransCanada accepted this alternative route in December (TransCanada had previously stated that any alternative route around Sandhills would be too costly).

To rectify the more general problem--the absense of a formal process--Nebraska introduced law [[LB1611]] in January 2012. The majority party of Nebraska's unicameral legislature, [[and the governor were critical of the route through the Sandhills, but unlike the environmentalist movement, they are not opposed to pipelines or the oil industry in general|https://journalstar.com/news/local/heineman-wants-president-to-deny-pipeline-permit/article_49eeb3fd-b4f1-5e79-99ae-aea09c7757ab.html]]. TransCanada's position used to be that an alternative route would be to expensive. When the DOS announced in December 2011 that the environmental impact assessment would be delayed for an additional anaylsis of the impact on the Sandhills, TransCanada gave in and agreed to an [[alternative route|KXL reroute]] that would avoid the Sandhills. By this point, several Nebraska lawmakers had already commited to overhauling the [[Major Oil Pipelines Siting Act|LB1161]], believing that the changes would not retroactively apply to the KXL application.

