## In Organizational Learning (1988)

>Studies of the adoption of civil service reform by cities in the United States (Tolbert & Zucker 1983) and of high technology weaponry by air forces (Eyre et al 1987) both show patterns in which features of the match between the procedures and the adopting organizations are more significant for explaining early adoptions than they are for explaining later ones, which seem better interpreted as due to imitation.

So March clearly wants to let you know that he read Tolbert & Zucker (1983) as well as Eyre et al (1987), which is why "studies" is the subject of the first subsentence. He does not want to move on to the important part of the sentence (which a sensible writer would make the subject) to quickly. Therefore, he inserts the nouns "patterns", "features", and "match", before moving on to "procedures". I assume procedures and organizations (or rather the match between them) is what we should actually care about? I am not sure. Of course, you could argue that at least he placed "match" before the remaining two nouns, so at least its not at the very end of the sentence. We could give him credit for that, if it wasn't for the fact that "match" does not need to be a noun in the first place. It would be far more sensible to use "match" as an active verb, but he just places in its noun form with the same spelling in the midst of five (!) other nouns, just to make sure that really nobody understands which noun relates to which. After summarizing all this, it occurs to me that I think I still don't fully understand which noun relates to which. Do the "patterns" relate to "features of match" or to the "significance" - are they statistical patterns? Finally, even though it's objectively a terrible sentence, I should mention that the sentence did not even particularly stand out to me when I read it for the first time. And I haven't even mentioned the fact that its a terrible run-on sentence, and everything I have mentioned above does not matter in the slightest, because what he actually wants to say, he briefly mentions in the short sentence he has tacked on at the end: organizations imitate each other.

## In March and Olsen (1975)

>Although presumptions of rationality both as an objective and as a reality are still common, the literature is full of attempts to develop the major implications of limitations on the awareness of alternatives, on the precision of information about consequences, and on the clarity and consistency of goals.

Could you not fit a verb between implications, limitations, awareness, and alternatives? There I am, reading "implications" and I think--aha, a noun! But no, I still have a far way to go until I reach a relevant word.